[#5610] Add turbo frames chapter (#154)
infinum/rails-handbook: Development practices/Turbo frames.md

Example:

If we have a part of the page defined like this:

```Html
  ...
  <turbo-frame id='id'>
    <a href='/users/new'>New user</a>
  </turbo-frame>
  ...
```

Once the link to add a new user is clicked, the response might look like this:

```Html
  <body>
    <h1> New user </h1>

    <turbo-frame id='id'>
      <form action='/users'>
        <input name='user[name]' type='text' value='Name'>
        <input type="submit">
      </form>
    </turbo-frame>
  </body>
```

In this case, the frame from the response will be extracted and it will replace the frame with the same id from where the click originated.
That means that the form for adding a new user will replace the link that was clicked and the rest of the page will remain intact.

## Installation
To be able to use the turbo frames in our application, the [turbo-rails](https://github.com/hotwired/turbo-rails) gem needs to be installed.

The gem is automatically configured for applications made with Rails 7+ unless --skip-hotwire was passed to the generator.

It can also be installed manually:
1. Add the turbo-rails gem to your Gemfile: `gem 'turbo-rails'`
2. Run `./bin/bundle install`

> 3. Run `./bin/rails turbo:install`

Reviewer: when I ran `bin/rails turbo:install` I got this message:

`You must import @hotwired/turbo-rails in your JavaScript entrypoint file`

I ignored it, and following the rest of the examples didn't work (normal page reloads happened). Please add information on how to install turbo frames into:
1. a new application (I had to add webpacker to Gemfile, install it, and add `import '@hotwired/turbo-rails'` to app/javascripts/packs.
2. an existing application - it would be cool to have all the steps necessary for bringing turbo frames to an app that's architectured like one of our apps (with app/webpack folder)

Also, provide a section which explains the dependencies. I believe `webpacker` is one that is required for this to work.

And lastly, is it possible to use Hotwire and its turbo frames with Stimulus? I think we should investigate this as well and add as new sections to this chapter.

Reviewer: I just did a triage of our apps and unfortunately, not a lot of our apps use webpacker at all.

But, I think we should have a section where it's explained how to hook up hotwire turbo frames into apps using webpacker, and those that don't.

The be-all end-all is that `import '@hotwired/turbo-rails'` needs to be in the Javascript entrypoint file, which is usually located in `app/javascript/application.js` or `app/webpack/packs/application.js` for apps using webpacker.

```ruby
  h2 = 'Authors'

  - @authors.each do |author|
    .row
      .col
        = author.first_name
      .col
        = author.last_name
      .col
        = link_to 'Edit', edit_author_path(author.id)
```

There is a list of authors and next to each author there is an edit button.
Now let's say that we want to be able to edit the authors inline, without redirecting to a new page.

What would usually require some javascript code, can be easily done using turbo frames with just a few changes on the existing code:
```ruby
  h2 = 'Authors'

  - @authors.each do |author|
    = turbo_frame_tag "edit_author_#{author.id}"
      .row
        .col
          = author.first_name
        .col
          = author.last_name
        .col
          = link_to 'Edit', edit_author_path(author.id)
```

The only required change was adding this line for each author:
```ruby
  = turbo_frame_tag "edit_author_#{author.id}"
```

The `turbo_frame_tag` helper method will wrap the content in a `<turbo-frame>` tag.

For example, for the author with the `id=1` it will wrap the block of code in `<turbo-frame id="edit_author_1">` tag.

The view for the #edit action may look like this:
```ruby

>   = turbo_frame_tag "edit_author_#{@author.id}"

Reviewer: what if we want to use `render 'form'`? In that case, it wouldn't work because `new` and `edit` would have a different frame id.

Please try with the following and add it as a section in this chapter if it works (eg: Working with partials for forms):

```ruby
= turbo_frame_tag [action_name, dom_id(@author)]
```

Author: This does not work because the `dom_id(@author)` for the #new action is `new_author` so
`= turbo_frame_tag [action_name, dom_id(@author)]` would generate the turbo frame with the `new_new_author` id.

Also if there some validation errors while editing, the action_name would be `update` instead of `edit`.

```

The first change to our index page is the link to the new_author_path. This link is different to the one for the edit_author_path, because `data: { 'turbo-frame': 'new_author' }` was added to it.

The `data-turbo-frame` attribute can be added on non-frame elements to control from which frame was the link clicked or the form submitted.

In our example, we want the link to act as if it was clicked inside of a turbo-frame with the `'new_author'` id.

And that turbo-frame is the second change for the index page. It is just an empty frame which will be replaced with the response from the #new action, which may look like this:
```ruby
  = turbo_frame_tag 'new_author'
    = simple_form_for @author do |f|
      .row
        .col
          = f.input :first_name
        .col
          = f.input :last_name
        .col
          = f.button :submit
```

So we click on the link to add a new author, it acts as if it was clicked inside of a `'new_author'` frame because of the `data-turbo-frame` attribute. The response provided by the #new action will have its turbo-frame segment extracted and the content will replace the frame from on the index page.

### target

> By default, navigation within a frame will target just that frame. But it can also drive another named frame by setting the `target` to the ID of that frame.

Reviewer: please elaborate a bit more for this section cause I find it hard to understand/visualize what's happening.

</turbo-frame>
...
```

Once the link to add a new user is clicked, the response might look like this:

```Html
<body>
  <h1> New user </h1>

  <turbo-frame id='id'>
    <form action='/users'>
      <input name='user[name]' type='text' value='Name'>
      <input type="submit">
    </form>
  </turbo-frame>
</body>
```

In this case, the frame from the response will be extracted and it will replace the frame with the same id from where the click originated.
That means that the form for adding a new user will replace the link that was clicked and the rest of the page will remain intact.

## Installation
To be able to use the turbo frames in our application, the [turbo-rails](https://github.com/hotwired/turbo-rails) gem needs to be installed.

The gem is automatically configured for applications made with Rails 7+ unless --skip-hotwire was passed to the generator.
Any new project that uses the [default-rails-template](https://github.com/infinum/default_rails_template) should have Turbo set up and ready to go.

It can also be installed manually:
1. Add the turbo-rails gem to your Gemfile: `gem 'turbo-rails'`
2. Run `./bin/bundle install`
3. Run `./bin/rails turbo:install`

> 4. Add `import '@hotwired/turbo-rails'` to the Javascript entrypoint file, which is usually located in `app/javascript/application.js` or `app/webpack/packs/application.js` for apps using webpacker if it hasn't been automatically added in the previous step.

Reviewer 2: Maybe my intention wasn't clear, I would remove c/p of installation instructions and leave the reference to the official docs.

To do that, the server needs to respond with `422 Unprocessable Entity`, otherwise the whole page might break if there were any validation errors.

Example controller code:
```ruby
def edit
  @author = Author.find(params[:id])
end

def update
  @author = Author.find(params[:id])

  if @author.update(author_params)
    redirect_to authors_path
  else
    render :edit, status: :unprocessable_entity
  end
end
```

NOTE: If you are using slim, make sure to name the views like `'index.html.slim'` instead of just `'index.slim'` because otherwise the form submissions won't work correctly!

## Targeting navigation into or out of a frame
Sometimes we may want the most links to operate within the frame context, but not all of them.

### data-turbo-frame
Let's say that we also want to be able to add a new author on the index page, without redirecting to a completely new page.
This time we don't want to replace anything that's visible on the index page.
We actually want to "append" the form for creating a new author to the page.

> If we used the same approach as for the inline editing, we would replace the link for creating a new user with the form. Maybe we don't want to do this because we don't want the form to appear at the same position where the button is, but somewhere else on the page. Luckily it is also done very easily with turbo frames.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If we used the same approach as for the inline editing, we would replace the link for creating a new user with the form. Maybe we don't want to do this because we don't want the form to appear at the same position where the button is, but somewhere else on the page. Luckily it is also done very easily with frame targeting.
```

Index page:
```ruby
h2 = 'Authors'
= link_to 'Add author', new_author_path, data: { 'turbo-frame': dom_id(Author.new) }

= turbo_frame_tag Author.new
- @authors.each do |author|
  = turbo_frame_tag "edit_author_#{author.id}"
    .row
      .col
        = author.first_name
      .col
        = author.last_name
      .col
        = link_to 'Edit', edit_author_path(author.id)
```

The first change to our index page is the link to the new_author_path. This link is different to the one for the edit_author_path, because `data: { 'turbo-frame': dom_id(Author.new) }` was added to it.

> The `data-turbo-frame` attribute can be added on non-frame elements to control from which frame was the link clicked or the form submitted.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `data-turbo-frame` attribute can be added on non-frame elements to control which part of the page should be updated by user interaction with the element.
```

In our example, we want the link to act as if it was clicked inside of a turbo-frame with the `new_author` id.

And that turbo-frame is the second change for the index page. It is just an empty frame which will be replaced with the response from the #new action, which may look like this:
```ruby
= turbo_frame_tag Author.new
  = simple_form_for @author do |f|
    .row
      .col
        = f.input :first_name
      .col
        = f.input :last_name
      .col
        = f.button :submit
```

The relevant controller actions may look like this:
```ruby
def new
  @author = Author.new
end

def edit
  @author = Author.find(params[:id])
end

def create
  @author = Author.new(author_params)

  if @author.save
    redirect_to authors_path
  else
    render :new, status: :unprocessable_entity
  end
end
```

> So we click on the link to add a new author, it acts as if it was clicked inside of a frame with the `new_author` id because of the `data-turbo-frame` attribute. The response provided by the #new action will have its turbo-frame segment extracted and the form for creating a new author will replace the empty frame with the same id from the index page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When the user clicks on the link to add a new author, the button sets the turbo frame target to `new_author`. Upon receiving the response, provided by the #new action, the `new_author` turbo-frame segment is extracted and the empty frame placeholder is replaced with the form content.
```

```

This way, when we submit the form with the valid attributes, it will act as if it has been submitted from the `main` turbo frame because of the `data-turbo-frame` attribute.
The AuthorsController#create action then renders the Authors#index page, and replaces the content from the `main` turbo frame, which almost acts like the whole page has been refreshed.
Now the newly created author should be visible in the authors list.

Another way of achieving this behaviour is by using [Turbo streams](https://turbo.hotwired.dev/handbook/streams).

### target
The documentation for the turbo frames describes the `target` attribute like this:

*By default, navigation within a frame will target just that frame. This is true for both following links and submitting forms. But navigation can drive the entire page instead of the enclosing frame by setting the target to _top. Or it can drive another named frame by setting the target to the ID of that frame.*

Setting the target to `_top` does actually drive the entire page:
```Html
<turbo-frame id='authors' target='_top'>
  <a href='/authors/1'>
    Following link will replace the whole page, not just this frame.
  </a>
</turbo-frame>
```

> However, the second part (*Or it can drive another named frame by setting the target to the ID of that frame.*) doesn't seem to work in development without using turbo streams ([discussion](https://discuss.hotwired.dev/t/target-attribute-on-turbo-frame-tags/1959)) and `data-turbo-frame` attribute can be used to achieve the required functionality.

Reviewer 3: There's an example on Atlas using `target:` that works, you just have to put the target on both turbo frames.
Your previous example could be rewritten as:
```ruby
# index.html.slim

= turbo_frame_tag 'main'
  h2 = 'Authors'
  = link_to 'Add author', new_author_path, data: { 'turbo-frame': dom_id(Author.new) }

  = turbo_frame_tag Author.new, target: 'main' # <--
  - @authors.each do |author|
    = turbo_frame_tag "edit_author_#{author.id}"
      .row
        .col
          = author.first_name
        .col
          = author.last_name
        .col
          = link_to 'Edit', edit_author_path(author.id)

# new.html.slim

= turbo_frame_tag Author.new, target: 'main' # <--
  = simple_form_for @author do |f|
    .row
      .col
        = f.input :first_name
      .col
        = f.input :last_name
      .col
        = f.button :submit
```
